We talked a little bit about the range
of experience that people have
with disability that it's so varied.
This really comes through in how
people interact with computers and
mobile devices.
We can think about how people surf, some
people use the mouse, some people don't.
Some people use things
called switch devices,
which are small keyboard devices
that have a limited set of keys.
So if you have limited motion,
but you can hit a couple of keys,
you have an easier interface
to get through the computer.
Some people use head wands.
If you're quadriplegic or paraplegic and
you have limited use of your limbs,
there are other ways
of navigating the web.
And so if we really focus on the basics,
amazingly,
we can sort of support some of
these technologies that people use.
And so even more of a reason to learn
the basics of web accessibility.
So let's start busting some
myths about accessibility.
Some of the things that I've seen
crop up that are misconceptions.
So first, screen readers use JavaScript.
Don't need to make a no JS site for
a screen reader to use it.
They look at the page as rendered and that
ss rendered, that's gonna come up a lot.
I mentioned shadow DOM and web components,
that's kind of the term I learned in
how accessibility would apply to that,
was that it's important that
it's how it gets rendered.
It's like the whole thing and
the rendered source of the page, so
screen readers rely on that.
That said, screen readers are not
the only aspect of accessibility.
We'll dive into it quite a bit, but we're
gonna hopefully give you lots of tips and
techniques for more than just
screen reader accessibility.
People also navigate by voice, and
this is one area that semantic HTML
in particular, will really help out.
One question that I've gotten is,
can we track screen readers to know kinda
how people are using our sites,
how many people are using screen readers?
And the answer is no.
And it's not for a technical reason, it's
actually for a privacy reason, mostly.
I have an article in the in
the slides from Marco Ziva.
He worked at Mozilla for
a long time, he's blind and
he wrote very passionately about why we
shouldn't track screen readers on the web.
And I'll read this quote, he said, letting
a website know you're using a screen
reader, means running around the web
waving a red flag that shouts, here,
I'm visually impaired to blind at
anyone who is willing to look.
And so we don't want to track
people who don't wanna be tracked.
He said that it was the one place,
being the web,
that blind people could navigate around
relatively undetected without comments or
without needing help if something
was actually accessible.
I thought that's really powerful to be
able to help people live more independent
lives just by making
stuff more accessible.
That's an impact that we don't
necessarily think about all the time.
So yeah, lots of ways that people use the
Web and we just wanna build it accessibly.
And just let it be,
we're not gonna try and track people.
There are some areas of analytics,
if you're really curious about that,
we can talk about it more.
But for screen readers in particular,
we do not wanna track people.
So we have some overlapping
areas of accessibility
that kind of feed into
that persuasion area.
If you need to convince people of, how can
we line this up with our other objectives?
There are some overlaps starting with
Search-Engine Optimization, SEO.
So accessibility doesn't
directly affect how websites
are ranked in things like Google or
Bing, but headings are.
There was kind of unfortunate practice
in SEO of just jamming as much as
many key words that you could
into a page and fortunately,
that's not the way people
do things anymore.
But those heading tags
are still very important.
They tell Googlebot or blind people,
how a page is structured.
And so that semantic markup that
we put into our pages helps
both accessibility and
search engine optimization.
And also using links in and out of
your site kinda create this network,
yeah, it just adds some
legitimacy to your site.
Links are good for navigating,
they work great in screen readers and
with the keyboard, and so
that's another overlap.
Performance, which we will talk
about later in our design section.
But if a site loads fast,
you can interact with it quicker.
It's kinda good for
everyone, it's like, yeah,
accessibility really is
a benefit to everyone.
There's a talk that I've linked
in the slides from Eric Bailey
at the PerfMatters conference.
It was one of my favorite things
about accessibility and performance.
if you're a performance person,
or interested in it,
I would highly recommend checking
out that talk from Eric Bailey.
And again, we'll talk a lot
more about performance later.
Security, I touched on this briefly, but
if your user interface isn't accessible,
it can be become a privacy or
security issue.
If you think of an ATM or
like a point of sale system or something,
if a person can't interact
with it without getting help,
they can't do it independently.
So we wanna try and make our
interfaces either physical interfaces
are kinda an analog to the digital
ones that we're creating.
But we don't wanna force someone to make a
choice between access and security, which
is really interesting to me, like those
kind of overlaps are super fascinating.
Customer and business growth, I mean,
the more accessible your site is,
the more people can use it.
Or the flip side of it,
the less accessible your site is,
the fewer people can use it,
the fewer customers you might have.
For accessible platforms,
if they're accessible from the start,
then you could have more early
adopters that have disabilities.
It's unfortunately left out, accessibility
is left out often early in the process
when that's precisely when we
need to think about it the most.
And so I think it can help your
growth of your business to be
considering accessibility
from the beginning.
You also have the benefit
of having less debt.
We talked about access debt that accrues
over time and it can be really hard to
root out when it's in the DNA of your
business or the DNA of your product.
And so the earlier we tackle this,
the better.